Getting data is great,
but being able to use it is very important.
To do that, we need to understand who is a data consumer.
A data consumer would be a person,
an organization, or system that uses data for a specific purpose.
Our data consumer can also be a data producer.
How's that possible? We'll discuss that later.
Now let us try to identify some common data stakeholders across businesses.
Companies have many different departments and many different types of data stakeholders.
These stakeholders might include sales, marketing, accounting,
finance, engineering, product management,
security and risk, and probably customer care.
Let's break this down a bit.
Sales organizations are responsible for setting up sales targets,
they are the people who sell the product.
Tesla sales team will target how many model S3 they want to sell in 2020 and 2021.
For all that, they need to use data.
Marketing on the other hand is about acquiring new customers and retaining old.
Hermes is high-fashion luxury brand.
Hermes marketing team will target customers making purchases in that segment.
For that, they need data.
Accounting is about recording
the expenses and earnings of a business as they're happening.
For any business, accounting is required.
Some do it in-house,
while others use outside help.
Companies like Deloitte and Ernst and Young help businesses with their accounting needs.
What do they need? Data. Finance is about managing the company's wealth,
having a strategy of where to invest,
and having financial predictions around it.
Finance teams work towards creating
a positive financial outlook to influence investor decision.
Engineering is the group that creates the product,
designs and creates it.
For Boeing, they're manufacturing planes, while for Pinterest,
they're creating a website.
Next, product management.
Product management focuses on the life cycle of a product.
Product management process domain boundaries of technology,
business, and behavioral sciences to understand how magic can be created.
Nobody asked for an iPhone,
well, maybe except for Steve Jobs,
but some great work went into it and they created a magic out of it.
What they all need is data.
Customer care.
As the name suggests and you might also
know it is the department that customer reaches out to,
to address grievances or concerns.
They don't need any data,
just kidding. Security and risk.
While Paypal security and risk teams make sure all standards are out in place
to secure customers payment information and no fraudulent elements are misusing it,
Hyatt security team will also have to take care of its customers physical security.
Depending on type of business and context,
security and risk teams might be taking care of different aspects of business.
Well, they don't need any data.
Well, I'll leave up to you to decide.
So far what we have discussed is not a comprehensive list.
Different companies might have different departments and corresponding stakeholders.
GE will have manufacturing,
while Shell will have oil and drilling.
What you need to remember in all of this is that
consumers need data to do their jobs in any department.
To better understand our data consumers,
we need to understand,
how data will be used.
Is it far reporting or building ML models.
What tools will be used?
Excel or Google Data Studio.
Are there any standards within a particular community of users.
Legal might want data differently than accounting or finance.
Also, sometimes you might have to provide the same data in multiple formats.
So we need to know format requirements.
Now it's time to put your shine and your knowledge to test.
Please complete the exercises below.